# Tern Community Meeting Minutes, 02-02-2021

## Attending
* Rose Judge (VMware)
* Nisha Kumar (VMware)
* Teo Voinea (Microsoft)
* Christian Pacheco (Microsoft)
* Prajwal M


## Agenda
* Company Adoption List (who’s using and in what capacity? Additional requirements?)
* Release 3.0.0
* Rename `master` to `main`
* Other?

# Minutes

### Company Adoption List
* Microsoft
    * Uses
        * Automated scan of container images used in build pipelines. Using Tern to generate an SBoM of components used inside the images. Then run that list through vulnerability databases to show users and customers potential vulnerabilities -- will eventually expand to legal scanning compatibility. JSON wrapper on top of output to ingest the information in the Tern-generated SBoM.
    * Pain points
        * Trying to use it in CI/CD pipeline -- time sensitive (in terms of the time it takes Tern to scan an image) when it comes to build time. Request to improve scanning performance /time it takes to run a scan. Potentially will discover more edge use cases for unique images.
        * Graceful handling of errors (tool can crash unexpectedly sometimes).
        * Main concern using cache is storing or letting third parties (i.e. Tern) /entities access company data (i.e. which open source components are being used)
    * Other
        * Cache of no use for their CI/CD pipeline since most images are new and being analyzed in a fresh environment (Rose and Nisha confirm if scan is being run on a new VM, cache is of no use). Tern is caching at the layer level if cache is available.
        * Nisha suggests maybe having a centralized caching system. Rose and Nisha trying to figure out how to make Tern caching work in a Kubernetes environment where we could query the network instead of the cache directly -- want orgs to be able to setup their own instance of the cache database.
        * Teo says they can investigate the overlap of the layer information they are inventorying to see if cache would be useful.
        * Teo: How much time are you saving using the cache vs not? Rose TODO to figure it out.
* Prajwal: mostly using Tern for learning about containers

### Release 3.0.0 (Rose)
* Call for action -- Lots of refactoring/technical debt bugs available to take on
* Rose will go through and try to “re-scope” the release. Only one month (ish) until release day and lots of work still to do.

### Renaming master to main (Rose)
* Rose will rename tern’s `master` branch to `main`. The GitHub webui makes this easy. All pull requests and weblinks will redirect but contributors will need to rename their local working environments.

### Enabling inventory of a live container Image (Nisha)
* Tern is working with teams like Cloud Native Buildpacks (CNB) to be able to create SBoMs while building the container image using OCI image artifact-style storing of the SBoMs. For this to happen, Tern needs to be able to inventory as the container image is being built. Nisha has filed issues with regards to this which is what she will mostly be working on.
