# Tern Community Meeting Minutes, 03-02-2021

## Attending
* Rose Judge (VMware)
* Nisha Kumar (VMware)
* Dhairya Jain (Student)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)
* Teo Voinea (Microsoft)
* Masaki Kimura (Hitachi Vantara)
* Alexander Mazuruk (Samsung)

## Agenda
* Discussion about Tern API [WIP PR](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern-api/pull/3)
* Analysis at container build time update ([issue #849](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/issues/849))
* Open PR discussion
* Other?

# Minutes

### Tern API PoC
* Thoughts on PR so far? This is a great start -- originally Nisha thought that the webui would be able to help get pieces of information like just the first layer. We now have a command line option for that so perhaps in the future the UI can accept flags to get these pieces of information. 
* Ideally we will run Tern in the backend, get the JSON output and you filter out the JSON based on what the GET request is
* Right now this is running Tern on the command line and displaying what output it gets.
* Rose and Nisha TODO: open issues in the [API repo](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern-api) that break down smaller tasks towards final output.
* We have folks who want Tern running on K8s, so for that to happen we need to be able to host the UI API on one server and the database with Tern on one or more containers. These would all be a pod that you can deploy with K8s. 
* Masaki: the idea of a database is helpful and could be used by his employer, so he will look for work on that in the issues that Rose and Nisha open and/or the GSoC intern does.

### Analyze at container build time update (Nisha)
* Background: Nisha has been working on PoC to generate an SBoM at container build time rather than after the container is built. Super issue. Investigation has shown that in order to make this happen, we can’t use the functions we have in Tern right now -- Nisha needs to add something in rootfs/util.py and then add functions at the top level to run Tern in default mode at container build time.
* Nisha may have to work on this super issue by herself without contributions from others because it is an experiment and she doesn’t want to touch `main` until it’s working.
* Nisha will close the sub-issues and there will just be the one super issue that she will use as a reference in her work.
* Rose suggests Nisha assigns the super issue to herself and she will create an `experimental` tag in GitHub that she can label the issue.
* Teo asked how this feature will work. Nisha: After docker commit, you will run Tern and inventory the container image at that point. Nisha using buildah right now. End result would be that as you are creating layer blobs for the container image, you would also be creating SBoM blobs. 
* End goal is to be able to push both sets of blobs to a registry. This is out of scope for the Tern project, however and we should probably open up an issue in repos like buildah and ask if they can enable a feature in buildah that support this kind of push to a registry.

### Open PR updates
* [PR #898](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/889): Jamie has seen the requested changes and will get to the PR shortly 
* Rose will test [GitPython PR](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/897)
* Nisha will test [parsing PR](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/891) for the image tag and image digest.

### Other
* Alexander: Request to cut a new release with the [parsing PR](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/891) fix? Rose: we just cut a release and 3.0.0 is coming within the next month. Given that the release process is manual and timely we would probably ask that you wait for the next release until release process is less manual. 
* Alexander question about [Scancode issue affecting Tern](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/issues/818) -- is there an update? TODO: Rose ping Phillipe about the issue, which is coming from [Scancode](https://github.com/nexB/scancode-toolkit/issues/2382).
* Alexander: Would Tern be interested in a large amount of Docker output reports? ONAP is running Tern on lots of images on a weekly basis and could provide the scans to Tern if interested. Rose requested Alexander to provide general insight about what he sees in the scans for now (i.e. trends, issues, etc)
* Can put feedback in a GitHub discussion: https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/discussions

