# Tern Community Meeting Minutes, 03-16-2021

## Attending
NOTE: Daylight Savings in the US happened this week and there was some confusion about the updated meeting time. Rose will update Tern's README to reflect the correct time in UTC so this confusion doesn't happen again.

* Nisha Kumar (VMware)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)
* Rose Judge (VMware)

## Agenda
* Tabling [OCI container work](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/777) (Nisha)
* Pull Request Reviews/Updates/Discussion (Rose)
* Release 2.5.0 (Rose)

# Minutes

### Tabling OCI container work
* Nisha has noticed the only thing that is constant with OCI is the image spec. The distribution spec is still in flux. None of the registries actually support OCI images. What people are doing is using a tool call skopeo, skopeo will convert one image into another format while the image is still in the registry. The layout of the image on disk (when image is pulled from the registry) is not different between the two formats (OCI and other format).
* Layout on disk can be anything you want -- can store the filesystem anywhere on disk. As a result, docker save seems to be the only standardized way to lay the things out on disk and this is what Tern currently uses.
* Most of the specification is contingent on the registry actually conforming to the spec, and not all registries conform to it. So we are still good with using the Docker API. Thus, table OCI enabling for now. 
* The OCI distribution spec is in flux and only based on how the tarballs/components are referenced (what the endpoints are). How it gets layed out on disk may or may not change.
* Nisha will close the issue with an update and reopen the issue if consensus is reached around OCI distribution spec.


### Pull Request Reviews/Updates/Discussion
* Jamie’s distroless PR: Nisha requests that the two commits be squahsed, keeping the first commit message, and then we can merge it. Thanks for sticking with it!
* Rose will review the devcontainer PR. Jamie will update the PR commit message so it passes linting
	* Jamie suggests that using Visual Studio Code Dev Containers should be the default suggestion for new contributors as it is the easiest to get started.
	* VS code is cross platform and there are other Open Source alternatives as well.

### Release 2.5.0
* Request from Jamie to see the new release published soon as they are hitting a bug in production that will be fixed when the next release is cut.
* Rose and Nisha will target release 2.5.0 will be end of next week at the latest. If we can get the currently open pending PRs merged sooner, we can cut it at the end of this week.

