# Tern Community Meeting Minutes, 03-30-2021

## Attending
* Rose Judge (VMware)
* Nisha Kumar (VMware)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)

## Agenda
* Tern release cadence
    * Should we shorten it?
    * Need to overhaul Tern’s CI testing framework
* PRs:
    * Automating release process: https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/910
    * Dev container setup: https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/906
    * Test live inventory: https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/938
* GSoC:
    * Where to apply - Nisha

# Minutes

### Tern release cadence
* Is 3 months too long?
    * MS tracks issues based on the data from their runs -- only requires new releases when there’s a bug in the reports.
* Jamie would like to help streamline the release process.
    * Jamie is involved with other opens source projects that can help with this.
        * [semantic release](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release) has a bunch of different tools under its umbrella. You make your commits with semantic labelings (fix, feature, etc) and it builds a changelog for you and does the correct version bump. Bug fixes increment the patch version. Plugin to do the release on PyPi.
* When Nisha established a commit message format she tried to avoid the semantic labels (i.e. fix or feature) because a number of committers are not proficient in English and oftentimes the commit message is just copy and pasted from the bug.
	* Automating the release notes does not seem like it will work right now as we have a specific format that we would like to maintain.
* There is a draft PR to automate the process. 
* We need to add a suite of functional tests after the release gets cut (and before)
* For now --  let’s monitor when any big bugs are fixed and play by ear as to how often we need a release. General consensus that 3 months is too long as number of contributors ramps up and things are getting added/merged faster.
* Jamie, can you send us a list of typical Docker images that you typically run against? Usually we test against debian, photon, alpine but not distroless. We need to exercise all of the scripts that we have in base.yml. Jamie will send a list of top 10 images that they see.
* Improving Tern’s CI testing for PRs will hopefully catch more bugs than our current testsuite which will eliminate the need to cut “emergency” releases to fix bugs.


### PRs
* Rose will merge the dev container setup [PR](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/906). 
* Still discussing automating the release. Rose and Nisha will both start to test the PR. 
* Request for Jamie to test https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/938 -- might be nice to get outside eyes on it. Any feedback can go in the PR. This PR is the first step to enabling Tern to inventory things at build time like cloud native build packs and other tools that build container images.

### GSoC
* Dhairya (GSoC intern candidate) reached out to Nisha and said he was unable to find Tern in the list of PSF GSoC suborgs -- Nisha told him to apply to PSF. Some suborgs show up under PSF but Tern is not one of them but there’s also projects that don’t show up. 
* Rose and Nisha will follow-up with John Hawley (GSoC PSF admin) to figure out how to get Tern to show up as a suborg
