# Tern Community Meeting Minutes, 04-13-2021

## Attending
* Rose Judge (VMware)
* Nisha Kumar (VMware)
* Teo Voinea (Microsoft)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)

## Agenda
* Re-thinking using the Docker CLI to pull images
	* https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/12/02/dont-panic-kubernetes-and-docker/ 
* PRs:
	* [Recognize ADD/COPY](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/943)
	* [Address Poor regex performance](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/945)
* GSoC
	* Applications due 4/13


# Minutes

### Re-thinking using the Docker CLI to pull images
* Kubernetes is getting rid of dockershim and directly using CRI to access runtime interface. This enables Kubernetes to directly talk to containerd, so Tern cannot use docker commands to pull container images from a registry.
* If you want to build a container image on K8s, you can’t do that right now, you have to build it outside of kubernetes. You can still run the container in your cluster if it was created with Docker.
* If you wanted to deploy Tern as a k8s cluster on a custom resource definition (CRD), it can’t be dependent on docker.
* There are currently no client tools that will do the same thing as `docker save` for an image. Tern uses `docker save` to lay out the container image on disk in a userspace filesystem before it reads/analyzes it. The only other tool that can pull image manifests and blobs is [ORAS](https://github.com/deislabs/oras) but then we need a system dependency on ORAS and go, or we can make our own tool to pull images but there is no python module that will do that for us so we would have to write this tool in go.
	* Consensus that we should probably try what tools already exist to do this instead of reinventing the wheel 
* All the container registries implement bearer authentication protocol and there are better abstractions in go for this than python. You could write a small go program that will do the pulling of the image for us -- i.e. pulling the manifest and downloading each of the blobs in the manifest (Q: in the same way as docker save?A: probably). 
* Host environment would need `go` installed to call the go tool using python's `subprocess`. Would have to distribute the go module with Tern and add it to the dockerfile. 
* ORAS is looking for a new home. By contrast, there is also [go-containerregistry](https://github.com/google/go-containerregistry) which is maintained by google and is heavily used by tools like ORAS -- you could directly create something that would pull manifests and blobs using this library. Both options (us creating our own tool or using ORAS) would be reasonably straightforward to implement. Neither option should affect Microsoft use cases.
* Decision from the group: Let’s start with ORAS and see if we have any complications with it. 
	* To implement, we can create a new class, `oci_image` that has a different implementation of the `load_image` method. The code is layed out such that this is easy for us. All things dockerfile related already have a set of command line options (`-d`). `-i` CLI option will have to instantiate the new OCI image class instead of `docker pull`, download image regardless of whether it is on disk already. All of the images Tern runs are public so shouldn't have to worry about `oras login`.
	* We can experiment to see if we need something extra on top of ORAS. Sends all the bytes to stdout, subprocess will have to store the results -- load it in memory from there. 
	* Rose will open an issue for this. UPDATE: [issue](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/issues/948) for this is opened.

### PRs
* [Recognize ADD/COPY](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/943)	
	* Nisha will test and provide feedback
* [Address Poor regex performance](https://github.com/tern-tools/tern/pull/945)
	* Jamie still trying to figure out if there’s another way to make it faster.
	* Agreed to  merge the PR in the meantime and then Jamie can poke later. We will circle back to this also at the next community meeting.

### GSoC
* Applications due today. We will evaluate proposals (so far only exepcting one).
