# Tern Community Meeting Minutes, 06-08-2021

## Attending
* Nisha Kumar (VMware)
* Rose Judge (VMware)

## Agenda
* Is Tern as a Python package a barrier to adoption in the Cloud Native space?

# Minutes

### Tern as a python package discussion
* Discussion in the tern slack channel:
    * https://vmwarecode.slack.com/archives/C88HDAALX/p1623103100023400
* Easier to integrate go package in the cloud native ecosystem (same as python developer wanting pip package)
* If written in go they can just import the command library and the utils that they need and just use that 
* If written in go -- does Tern organization structure change to define packages?
    * Load, report, analyze, utils, classes -- we could keep these same folders as packages. Look for wherever there is an init.py (every folder with init could be package). 
* Everything would be needed, right? (Rose) Nisha - yeah it's interdependent so you can’t really separate them if you were importing them as packages.
* Trouble understanding the ask: Tern works in a Docker container, or, can run Tern at container build time. Assumption is that default operation of Tern works like default FS scanners. No, Tern does not do that by default -- Tern re-creates the container (for which it needs root privileges). *However*, the live functionality does not need root privileges because it writes the lines into a script (`create_script()`)and invokes the script in a chroot environment at the location of the filesystem provided by the user. Kernel executes the process as root.
* Sambhav was looking for a static analyzer
* If it’s written in golang, folks in the Cloud Native Space are just more familiar with it and more likely to adopt. 
* Folks would like to ship Tern as a binary blob so it behaves like the other go projects -- we would have blob releases and they could download it from the go repo (like we do with pip packages) so they don’t have to shell/exec to run Tern, they would prefer to use syscall bindings.
* Hesitation to re-write in go: maintenance of two different projects and two different languages. Ironic - folks are probably installing python in their build environment even if they don’t know it *shrugs emoji*. 
* Is the debian package a fair middle ground or would folks still complain that its written in go? Nisha: I think debian package is a fair middleground. 
* In reference to [this discussion](https://github.com/buildpacks/rfcs/pull/166): Buildpacks is essentially a build specification -- therefore, no mandate to use certain tools to generate an SBoM but you can say in th spec that the buildpacks provider *should* generate an SBOM in this format.
    * If you were going to give an SBOM along with your buildpack, it should look like this. 
    * Tern has an internal model with plugins for the different formats so instead of 
